[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: There
are people who make history
and people who record it.
And sometimes there
are people who do both.
One such man is Daniel Sheehan.
In our last
conversation with Danny,
we looked at his
profound influence
in high profile legal cases.
And today, we begin a discussion
that few people in the world
have ever been privy to.
We begin with the high stakes
political scene in the United
States, and move on to
its seedy secret routes
and how we evolved from there.
Good to have you back Danny.
>> DANIEL SHEEHAN:
Thank you Regina.
>> REGINA: I've got to make
the standard disclaimer
to everyone.
You have such
information rich stories
that people need to
just sit back, relax,
and go back and watch it a
second time and take notes, OK?
Because you teach this
stuff, so I get it.
And this came from
a conversation
we had in the studio last time
we recorded, looking at really
what's at stake here
in the United States
with this, what seems
to be insane scenario
that's developed politically.
>> SHEEHAN: The larger tactical
moment in which this logistical
moment of the present
election takes place,
the larger tactical moment
that we find ourselves
in in American history is
the end of the Cold War.
>> REGINA: And we're-- yes.
>> SHEEHAN: We're still in that.
We're still in that period.
Those of us who went through
the entire period, not
just of the 45 year
Cold War, but really
what was basically
a 75 year Cold War
that began right with the
Bolshevik Revolution in 1917
at the end of World
War I, all the way up
to December 31st of 1991,
a 75 year period basically
of the Cold War with
this confrontation
between Western
democratic representative
capitalism and the international
or global socialism,
or communism, that that was the
fundamental dialectical dynamic
that characterized
the Cold War ever
since the Bolshevik Revolution.
And that came to an
end, functionally,
on the last day of 1991 with
the voluntary dissolution
of the Soviet Union, the
resignation of Gorbachev
as the head of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics.
So that's the larger
tactical moment
in which we find ourselves
in this election.
And this election is a pure
function of that moment.
At the conclusion
of the Cold War,
the Democratic Party that had
been basically a liberal party
consciously shifted through
the formation of a thing
called the Democratic
Leadership Conference,
instigated by people
like Richard Gephardt
in the Congress and
Bill Clinton and others,
these moderate Democrats,
that they turned away
from a liberal agenda
that had characterized
the Democratic Party under
Franklin Roosevelt and Truman
and Kennedy earlier.
And they adopted
a set of policies
that were a new, more
moderate set of policies.
They became, in
effect, Republicrats.
>> REGINA: Yeah, more
ordered toward industry.
>> SHEEHAN: That's right.
So that happened right at
the end of the Cold War.
And the reason for it was
because the Democratic Party
had become a liberal
Democratic Party in response
to the Bolshevik Revolution.
The Bolshevik Revolution was
challenging the previous robber
baron world view that went on
from 1868 to 1898 in the United
States, all the way up
to the First World War.
This was the ascendancy of
a corporate dominated world
where the corporations began
to take over the government.
>> REGINA: The corporatocracies.
>> SHEEHAN: The corporatocracy.
And these major moguls
inside the corporate world
dominated the policies of
the United States government.
They actually sent US
military expeditionary forces
around the world, vanquishing
any kind of resistance
to the corporations in South
America-- United Fruit--
and around the world.
And the British, you know,
established major colonial
powers over India.
The Dutch went into South Africa
and set up the Afrikaner regime
there.
That was the whole
operation that
was going on during that
period of the late 19th century
and early 20th century.
The Soviet Union rose up
in opposition to that,
declaring that they were an
antipodal, antithesis force
in the world to that type
of nation state based
corporate capitalist
imperialism.
And that was the
dynamic that went on.
And it ran the
world for 75 years,
that dialectical confrontation
between those two forces.
But with the Soviet
Union voluntarily
abandoning the field
at the end of 1901,
those same forces
that had generated
that particular worldview
of corporate imperialism
rose back to the fore
in the United States.
And immediately-- in
fact, the very first week
after the voluntary dissolution
of the Soviet Union on December
31st of 1991, there was a
meeting held in the George HW
Bush White House that was
chaired by Dick Cheney,
his secretary of defense, and
Paul Wolfowitz, his deputy,
and others.
And they actually promulgated
a 1992 United States Defense
Department policy planning
guidance document calling
for not the reduction of
the US military budget
now that the Soviet
Union had dissolved,
that had been the entire
rationale for this massive,
at the time, $350 billion
dollar a year military budget.
They proposed, instead, that
we increase the military budget
to $500 billion a year.
>> REGINA: Pick a new enemy.
>> SHEEHAN: Not
even a new enemy,
but to establish full
spectrum dominance.
>> REGINA: Yeah, OK, a
little more aggressive.
>> SHEEHAN: That was the
actual term they used.
>> REGINA: Wow, full
spectrum dominance.
>> SHEEHAN: And the purpose
of it was to maintain
the continued privileged access
to the strategic raw materials
that were needed by the
American corporations.
And that was what they said.
That's what they wanted to do.
Now fortunately when the
first release of that
happened on March 18th
of 1992, copies of that
were circulated to a limited
number of men at the Pentagon,
and to a limited number of
people inside the George HW
Bush administration.
And what happened is in
New York-- or actually
the "Washington Post" got
a hold of a copy of it.
And then they wrote a
major attack against it,
saying this was a return
to gunboat diplomacy.
It was a return to the
robber baron mentality
that characterized
that late 19th century
and early 20th century.
And they condemned it.
And so what George
HW Bush did is
he issued a unique
public statement
about a classified document,
saying they didn't acknowledge
that it even existed.
But if it did, it
was only a draft,
and that they were going to redo
the 1992 United States Defense
Department policy planning
guidance document.
So they actually prepared a
second classified document
called "The Projection
of US Military Power Into
the 21st Century and Beyond."
And it was coauthored
by George HW Bush
himself along with
Theodore Shackley, who
was his director of covert
operations for the Central
Intelligence Agency.
And what they proposed
in that is they
wanted to pursue full
spectrum dominance.
But they wanted to do
it not unilaterally
on the part of
the United States,
but multilaterally
with a new alliance
that they referred to as the new
northern industrial alliance,
and that that was going
to include the United
States, Canada, the
Mexican government-- not
the Mexican government run
by the indigenous people
of Mexico, but run by the
PRI, which was the Castilian
Spanish, the Causaians--
the United Kingdom,
France, Spain, Italy, the new
reunified Germany-- this is all
in the document,
classified document--
and also invading Russia to join
now that Russia has spun off
all of its ethnic provinces.
>> REGINA: You've got
a white boy agenda.
>> SHEEHAN: So what's you've
got is the full Caucasian
governments, which was the exact
same objective that Hitler had.
>> REGINA: A lot of
people who say, well,
I don't really care
about politics.
It's just a sham.
It's just a show.
But I think after
people listen to you,
it's very clear why
we do have to know
the underside of
politics, that that fabric
is based on virtually
every black market.
Every administration has their
assassination teams in place,
paid for out of black
ops money over people
whose names we know well in
the intelligence agencies
and so forth.
It's important to understand the
darkness of the paradigm that
has been running that
show for so long,
and then also look
at where we have
little cracks, little
fissures in the system
where a little light came
to surface for a short time.
Because if we get
this in our belly,
we can get that the
need for systemic change
has to happen through us.
That's why I love you
telling your story.
So do you want to start
back with your dad
as a prison guard,
Lucky Luciano?
Where do we start?
Yeah, it's a big story.
I'm going to relax,
get out of your way.
>> SHEEHAN: The challenge of
this type of discussion is
where to begin.
And so what I want to do
is I want to, first of all,
I want to point out that at
the very founding of the United
States government, the
Constitution of the United
States, you'll notice that
it was a compromise, that
people all talk about
it was a compromise
between the localists, the
state people and the colonies,
and those who sponsored a
stronger federal government.
But there was a lot
more than that going on,
that Madison and
Jefferson, who were
responsible for
the Bill of Rights
and the rights of individuals
and the kind of egalitarian
nature of the Constitution
of all people being created
equal, endowed by their creator
with certain unalienable rights
and all of that, was a major
element in the partnership.
But the other
partnership was headed up
by Alexander Hamilton.
Alexander Hamilton represented
the mercantilists--
>> REGINA: The money--
yeah, the money.
>> SHEEHAN: --the large
company owners, the banks,
the financial institutions.
And they were an
elitist group that
sympathized with the Royalist
view of leadership that
had dominated all of Europe,
and continued to dominate Europe
at the time of the founding of
the United States government.
So what you got was a
compromise between these two.
The United States Constitution
was not a pure document
for egalitarian democracy.
For example, the people could
not vote for the president.
They couldn't even vote for
their United States senators.
All they could vote
for were the members
of the House of Representatives
and their local state
legislature.
And the legislatures
would pick their senator.
And then they would
also be involved
in picking the president.
So that type of elitist
view is being reflected now
that we see in the conventions.
We see the Republican
and Democratic Party
has these superdelegates--
>> REGINA: Right.
>> SHEEHAN: --who are all--
>> REGINA: Very similar.
>> SHEEHAN: And the media don't
want to talk about them a lot.
They say oh, let's have all the
people vote in the primaries,
in the caucuses for who their
nominees are going to be.
But then when they see who
they're actually picking,
if they don't adequately comport
with what the establishment--
>> REGINA: Right,
go get someone else.
>> SHEEHAN: --party
wants, they'll insert
the superdelegates and
they'll change the rules
and they'll pick somebody else.
So that's the
challenge that we see.
But this has been integral to
the United States government
since its very founding.
And so you've always had these
mercantilists, these elitists,
these financial elite that
from behind the scenes
basically reach out and
control the policies,
the foreign policies
and domestic policies.
This challenge went out all the
way to the American Civil War.
And at the end of the
Civil War in 1868,
the Northern industrialists
and the urban people
and the financial
institutions, the East Coast
financial institutions,
won the war.
And they actually
suppressed the other people,
the more egalitarian, the
more rural, agrarian people.
And so what happens
is from 1868 to 1898,
that simply next 30
year period, we're
talking about a period
that's as short--
>> REGINA: Post-civil war, yeah.
>> SHEEHAN: --as short as the
period from when Ronald Reagan
was elected up until now right.
In that short 30 year
period, these people
rose to take complete
control of the government,
and that they were invading
the Hawaiian Islands, Guam.
They invaded Cuba.
They took over all of that area.
They engaged in
manifest destiny,
taking over all the lands
from the indigenous people,
the Native American
people on the continent.
They did that entire thing.
And they established themselves
as a major world power.
And since that
time, the people who
are favoring the United
States being a world power
have dominated the
American government.
And so that's a dark side
of the American government.
And they espouse all
these egalitarian,
democratic, idealist
values, but in fact they
don't practice them.
And they try to convince
us, for example,
that when they're
invading Vietnam,
in constructing a
completely fabricated
South Vietnamese government
and saying oh, this
is a struggle between
communism in the North
and democracy in
the South, you know,
it was a completely
fabricated government.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> SHEEHAN: They flew Ngo Dinh
Diem out of Columbia University
and flew him and put him in
power in the South and said,
oh here, there's a
separate government.
And because the American
people aren't thoroughly
educated politically,
we believed it.
And it was only
because of the rising
of a generation-- back in that
time, the baby boom generation
coming into college and
studying what was really
happening in
Southeast Asia that we
withdraw our support from them.
And there was this whole
period that we went through
of challenging those people.
>> REGINA: Where the
youth drove that.
They were so active in it, yes.
>> SHEEHAN: The baby
boomer generation,
the 82 million people in the
baby boomer generation rose
into political power,
challenged them.
They had the Senator Frank
Church and the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence
Abuse, investigated the CIA
and found out that they
were murdering people
and assassinating
people and smuggling
drugs around the world.
And this whole dark side
of the American government
started to be brought
into the light.
But what happened is that these
darker element struck back.
In 1980, they basically ousted
the new idealistic president,
Jimmy Carter, that had come in,
a wonderful guy, an honest guy,
a guy that was cutting
off military funding
to fascist dictators
around the world,
cutting off US military support.
But these people struck back and
they actually put into power,
not Ronald Reagan,
but George HW Bush.
That's who they put into power.
And he, from the
vice presidency,
ran all the major
functions of government
and had Ronald Reagan,
the professional actor,
be onstage as the president.
But he was not really making any
of that fundamental decisions.
And we're in that
period right now,
that dark period, of those
people that rose back
into a position of power--
>> REGINA: The ones
who are still alive.
>> SHEEHAN: Dick Cheney.
>> REGINA: They're still alive.
>> SHEEHAN: I mean,
they're still alive.
>> REGINA: They're still
exerting influence.
OK, now let's back up
a little bit from there
because the earlier part
of the story is critical.
I'm fascinated with
the elements I really
had no understanding
of until-- of course I
never do until I speak to you.
But let's go back
to the origins.
We talked a little
bit about Hitler
and him being installed
by the banking industries
and so forth.
>> SHEEHAN: We'll let's start
right there began because that
gets us to the end of World War
II and the prison and all that.
What happened that
people don't understand
is that at the end of
World War I, when Germany
rose up and tried to
establish hegemony in Europe,
and the United States
stayed out of that war
all the way up until 1917.
Actually the Soviet Union
had already-- the Bolsheviks
had risen to power,
overthrown the tsar Alexander,
and withdrew Russia from
World War I. It was only then
the United States came
in and stopped Germany
from taking over the whole area.
But what happened is that in
the Versailles peace treaty that
took place in 1918, that the
United States-- people have
heard about this
part-- they inserted
into the Treaty of Versailles
a reparations demand, making
Germany pay
reparations for having
undertaken an aggressive war.
What that really
was, those provisions
of the Versailles treaty
in 1900 were actually
inserted into the treaty
by two young lawyers that
were brought to the Treaty
of Versailles process
by the then Secretary
of State Robert Lansing,
under Woodrow Wilson.
His nephews, two nephews, Allen
Dulles and John Foster Dulles,
who were attorneys in the law
firm of Sullivan & Cromwell
on Wall Street, were
brought into that,
and they drafted into
the Treaty of Versailles
these reparations
demands that demanded
that the German government
pay billions of dollars
in reparations to a number of
companies whose property they
confiscated and had destroyed.
It turns out that
those people who
were demanding the reparations
were all private investment
clients of Brown Brothers
Harriman, a private investment
firm.
Allen Dulles was
the legal counsel--
>> REGINA: It was a conflict.
>> SHEEHAN: --for those people.
A total conflict, but no
one was there to enforce it.
And so what he
did is he inserted
into the Treaty of Versailles,
he and his brother John Foster
Dulles, these
reparations demands
that were paying the money
back to the clients for Brown
Brothers Harriman.
And so Germany,
which had nothing,
had to borrow in
order to get that.
And the loans that
were given to Germany
were given by other
business investment
clients of Brown Brothers
Harriman, all of whom
the lawyer of whom
was Allen Dulles.
And Allen Dulles had become
the lawyer for Germany.
So he actually
negotiated these loans
that were going to
Germany, rebuilding
the massive military
power of Germany,
because these people wanted to,
in fact, to rebuild Germany--
>> REGINA: Industry--
the industry.
>> SHEEHAN: --German
industry and their military,
to become the bulwark
against Bolshevism in Europe.
And the chairman of the board
of Brown Brothers Harriman,
or the chief executive officer,
was George Herbert Walker,
the grandfather of George
Herbert Walker Bush, George HW
Bush.
That was his grandfather,
his maternal grandfather.
And what they did
is they started
giving these loans to
Germany, paying money back
to pay the reparations
of their other clients,
and building up the military.
And then what they
did is in 1924,
George Herbert
Walker stepped out
as the CEO of Brown
Brothers Harriman, appointed
his son-in-law, Prescott Bush,
to be the new CEO of Brown
Brothers Harriman.
And George Herbert
Walker set up a bank
called the Union
Bank of New York,
which began to give loans.
They set up a subsidiary in
the Netherlands called the Bank
of Commerce and Shipping.
And they transferred
funds there and built
the national headquarters
for the Nazi party.
And they actually begin
to fund the Nazi party
and brought Hitler to power.
And actually on
January 3rd of 1933,
there was a meeting held
deciding whether or not
Hitler would be made the
chancellor of Germany.
And in the meeting was John
Foster Dulles and Allen Dulles.
And they extracted
an agreement from him
that he would continue
to pay off the loans
and he would be made chancellor.
That's how Hitler rose
to power in Germany.
>> REGINA: And it's just to
underscore the notion that
there is no morality.
There are no ethics when
it comes to the money guys,
in terms of who they loan to.
>> SHEEHAN: Corporations.
>> REGINA: They were loaning
to both sides the whole time.
>> SHEEHAN: Well no, they're
not loaning to the Russians.
>> REGINA: No, not the Russians.
I'm talking about--
>> SHEEHAN: They were
loaning to the Germans.
>> REGINA: The Germans, yes.
>> SHEEHAN: And there were no
two sides at that side except
for the Bolsheviks
and the fascists.
>> REGINA: OK, I hear
what you're saying.
>> SHEEHAN: What
happened is that--
>> REGINA: But this
was Wall Street.
>> SHEEHAN: This
>> REGINA: Wall Street, they
were implicated in that.
>> SHEEHAN: Well
very specifically,
it was the Wall Street law
firm of Sullivan & Cromwell,
with the senior partners of
which became Allen Dulles
and John Foster
Dulles, and others,
such as Robert Lovett and a guy
by the name of Robert Anderson,
that they were the
senior partners.
But they were funding
the rise of Hitler
to be the bulwark against
Bolshevism in Europe.
And what happened is when
Hitler rose to power,
and like this fear that we
said got out of control,
came out from under the
control of those people,
and he was trying to get the
United States and England
to join in a Caucasian alliance.
>> REGINA: See, now most
people don't know that.
>> SHEEHAN: But it's true.
That's what he was trying to do.
And when the United
States didn't,
because Franklin Roosevelt had
become elected, by that time.
Roosevelt was elected in
1932, and he did not support
entering into an alliance.
If in fact the Republicans
had won in 1932,
if Hoover had stayed
in power, they
would have joined into
an alliance with them.
And they would have refused
to come into World War
II against Germany.
But what happened
is was Roosevelt
came into positions of
power, and he was resisting
joining in the alliance.
And so these very people
that I'm talking about,
the private investment clients
of Brown Brothers Harriman,
they tried to mount a military
coup against Roosevelt, which
nobody wants to talk about.
Nobody talks about
it in high schools.
They don't teach
about in college.
1934, the chief of staff of
JP Morgan, a guy by the name
of-- I can't think of his name.
But anyway, they started trying
to organize a military coup
against Roosevelt.
And they tried to recruit the
commandant, the United States
Marine Corps, Major
General Smedley Butler,
to actually lead a
military coup against him
so that they could keep the
United States from entering
into the war against Germany,
as Germany then began to move
and eventually invaded Poland
and the Sudetenland and invaded
France and were marching down
the Champs-Elysees firebombing
England, and the United States
still hadn't gone into the war.
It was primarily because of
these major financial interests
stopping the United States
from coming into the war.
>> REGINA: OK, add the piece
about Hitler then backing
Japan.
>> SHEEHAN: Well what happened
is when England and the United
States would not join in, what
happened is the United States,
the deal that Hitler
was offering to England
and the United States was to
have Germany run all of Europe
under a fascist form of
government that combined
the corporations and the state,
where the state would subsidize
the corporations and the
corporations would produce all
the materials that were needed
for a major military state.
And the owners of the
stock of the corporations
would continue to get
the private profits.
And they wanted to
have the same kind
of regime in the United States.
In fact Henry Luce, who owned
"Time" magazine and "Life"
magazine and "Fortune" magazine
and several others, that
from 1924 to 1934,
he actually put
onto the cover eight of
his different publications
Hitler and Mussolini and Franco.
And they were openly
advocating fascism.
>> REGINA: And this was the most
popular magazine of the day,
"Life" magazine,
"Time," "Fortune."
>> SHEEHAN: The most widely-read
magazines that they were openly
advocating fascism.
In fact Henry Luce
wrote an essay,
or an editorial,
in "Time" magazine
in 1941 called "The
American Century,"
calling openly for the US
not to go to war in Europe
against Germany, allow Germany
to take complete control
of the area, but to turn our
attention toward the Pacific
and toward Asia, to open
up all those markets
for our corporations--
>> REGINA: Resources.
>> SHEEHAN: --and let
that be what we did.
And so that was
what the plan was.
But Roosevelt kept sticking
his thumb in this plan.
And what Roosevelt
did is, in fact,
is he instigated an attack
against Pearl Harbor,
because he was moving
into Asia and Japan
wanted to be the dominant force
in Asia, the imperial power.
They'd invaded China.
They had huge forces
going into Southeast Asia.
And in this financial group
that we're talking about
was trying to maintain
control over the area.
They were in fact
financing, secretly,
the shipping of
weapons into China
to support the Kuomintang, the
so-called nationalist Chinese.
And they were supporting them.
Henry Luce and Claire Boothe
Luce set up the Flying Tigers.
And they were flying,
you know, Terry--
>> REGINA: Military contracts.
>> SHEEHAN: They were doing
this completely privately to try
to maintain their
foothold in the East.
That's what was happening.
And what happened is
Roosevelt, eventually, he
moved all the US
aircraft carriers
and all of our major destroyers
into Pearl Harbor at one time.
>> REGINA: It was
that provoking?
>> SHEEHAN: Oh absolutely.
>> REGINA: There was
a pure provocation?
>> SHEEHAN: Absolutely.
He was doing it to try to lure
the Japanese into attacking
Pearl Harbor so that he
could get the American public
to resist the pressure
that was being put
on by these major fans of
fascism in the United States
and get them to
come into the war.
And so what he did is he put
all of the aircraft carriers,
all the destroyers into
Pearl Harbor at one time.
And the Japanese--
>> REGINA: Painted a big
red flag on it, yeah.
>> SHEEHAN: And then what he
did is two days before they
arrived, he moved the aircraft
carriers out of Pearl Harbor,
before they could know it, under
the cover of darkness actually.
And so they weren't
there when they attacked.
And so there were a lot
of other battleships
that were there that were
basically antiquated.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
mothball fleets.
>> SHEEHAN: Right.
And those are the people
that got attacked.
But he was willing to sacrifice
hundreds of US military people
that were killed in
that attack in order
to mobilize the
American people to get
them to enter into the war.
And you need to remember-- most
people don't realize this--
the United States
government never
declared war on Germany, never.
What they did is they
declared war on Japan,
after they were attacked,
and then Germany
declared war on
the United States
because they were
an ally of Japan.
Because when the
United States refused
to come into the
alliance with Germany,
Hitler established an
alliance with Japan,
to try to head off the
United States from being
able to go into Asia.
So that's what was happening.
And so it's important
to understand
that those alliances
were all in place
before World War II began.
And what happened is
that the financing
of the rise of Hitler into
power, by Brown Brothers
Harriman financial clients,
the Union Bank of New York,
the Bank of Commerce and
Shipping in Netherlands,
that whole group, they in fact
continued to fund Germany even
after the war was going on.
>> SHEEHAN: From 1941, '42--
>> REGINA: It's just so slimy.
>> SHEEHAN: --they continues
to fund them because they
supported him, not Roosevelt.
And what happened is they were
exposed by Smedley Butler.
And so what happened is a
congressional hearing was held.
And they ordered
the confiscation
of the assets of some
of these companies.
And the owners of
those companies
hired Allen Dulles
to be their lawyer
to hide their assets so they
wouldn't get confiscated.
>> REGINA: And then also
to bump off any competition
as the years went one.
>> SHEEHAN: So the bottom line
is that World War II went on.
We come to the end of
World War II, 1945.
The United States drops the
bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki
and the war comes to an end.
And what happens is immediately
the head of anti-Soviet
and anti-Eastern Bloc
intelligence for the Third
Reich, Nazi Major
General Reinhard Gehlen
turns himself in to the
101st Counter Intelligence
Corps in Germany and
offers his services
to the United States as
the chief of intelligence
against the Soviet Union, and
brings in all of his allies
and gets an agreement struck.
He gets an agreement
struck through--
he was assigned a translator by
the 101st Counter Intelligence
Corps, a young man by the
name of Theodore Shackley who
was born in Germany and
came to the United States
before World War II, and
entered the United States Army.
Because of his language
skills in Polish and German,
he was put into the 101st
Counter Intelligence
Corps in Germany.
And so when Reinhard Gehlen the
Nazi anti-Soviet specialist,
turned himself into the 101st
Counter Intelligence Corps,
Theodore Shackley was
assigned to be his translator.
And Gehlen offered his
services to the Western allies.
>> REGINA: And we've heard
of this in other communities,
because this was an influx
of intelligentsia of Germany,
the scientists.
>> SHEEHAN: Well
the scientists--
two different programs
were established.
>> REGINA: Right,
that's Paperclip.
>> SHEEHAN: The one,
Operation Paperclip,
the rocket scientists were
all brought over to the United
States to develop rockets, and
to deprive the Soviet Union
of as many of those.
But there was an additional
program, Operation Overcast,
which is the anti-Soviet
spies all throughout Europe
and Eastern Europe.
They were all under the
control of Reinhard Gehlen.
And so what Reinhard
Gehlen agreed to do
is that if the
United States would
agree to take Reinhard Gehlen's
name off the Nuremberg war
crime tribunal list,
and his hundred top men,
that they would agree
to function on behalf
of the Western
allies, and to have
Rainer Gehlen made the new head
of West German intelligence.
And that's what he did.
And his deputy was
Theodore Shackley.
A United States citizen was
his deputy, and stayed there.
And that was what happened
at the end of World War II.
And what happened is that,
also, the leadership of the SS
and the major Nazi party, they
realized that the war was lost,
and so they began to
secretly ship people out,
the leadership of the Nazi
party, out of Germany.
But with the United
States coming
in with the invasion
in June 6, 1944,
and the Russians were
invading from the east,
and as they were
closing in on Germany,
these guys all started fleeing.
And they fled down
to Argentina and--
>> REGINA: Brazil, all, yeah.
>> SHEEHAN: --and
Paraguay and Brazil.
And they all fled down
there with the support
of Pope Pius XII, who was
also a fascist, the guy who
signed the concordat with
Mussolini and Franco and Hitler
to not oppose the
Nazis in World War II,
in exchange for which they were
given custody of the Vatican
state, by Mussolini.
So all of that was going on.
And so what we saw was
that the leadership
of the entire
fascist organization
shifted down to South America.
And the financial
circles of people
that helped finance
their rise to power
continued their
alliance with them.
And that thing has continued
at the end of World War II.
And what happened is that--
it's a long and involved story--
but the bottom line is there was
discovered in the Philippines
a whole buried set of treasure
that General Yamashita
had been pilfering from all
of Asia on behalf of Japan
under a thing called
the Golden Lily Project.
And they were stealing
gold and platinum
and diamonds and rubies.
And they brought them.
And when they knew
the United States was
going to be invading Japan, they
secretly shipped them all out
to the Philippines
and buried them
in 176 different troves, each
of which contained $100 billion.
And it turns out
that the G2, the head
of US military intelligence
in the Philippines
at the end of World
War II, a fellow
named Edward Lansdale tortured
the driver of General Yamashita
to find out where some
of these buried treasures
were, recovered 12 of them,
$1.2 trillion in them.
And they used this as
a secret trove of money
under the control of
Brown Brothers Harriman,
actually the two
major senior partners
are Robert Lovett and
Robert B. Anderson.
>> REGINA: That's quite a trust.
>> SHEEHAN: That's
quite a trust.
And what they did is
they used that money
at the end of World War
II to suppress the rise
into positions of
power of people
who were part of the partisans.
All in Europe that
fought the Nazis.
They suppressed
their rise to power
and financed the rise to power
of Nazis, and Nazi supporters,
so that you got these fascist
governments all around
in Europe at the end of
World War II under the Truman
Doctrine.
And what they said is,
the Truman Doctrine,
we cannot allow the reins of
power to fall into the hands
of communists or socialists
even if it is the will
of the majority of their people.
And so what they did is they
suppressed those people,
raised up for governors
and mayors of cities
and stuff the actual
supporters of Nazis.
And they put them into power.
And that whole thing went on
under the Truman Doctrine.
And we began this process.
We set up the Central
Intelligence Agency.
The Central Intelligence
Agency was set up
by these same
financial services.
And the first civilian
chairman was Allen Dulles.
>> REGINA: Allen Dulles
again, director of the CIA--
now once he was into
that position as director
of the CIA, let's talk about how
things start spinning from that
point.
We're going to start
moving into JFK.
We're going to move into Cuba.
And everything that was
playing out at that time,
a lot of boomers will remember.
But what was really going on,
the underbelly of that time?
>> SHEEHAN: That's right.
Well what happened is that
at the end of World War II,
this new regime
basically came in,
because Franklin Roosevelt
died on April 12th of 1945
and Truman came into office.
And these forces
that were mobilizing
at the end of World War II,
bringing Gehlen in and agreeing
that he'd be the head of
intelligence for the West
German government,
that they would have
him be the primary
source of intelligence
against the Soviet Union,
that they would have
this trust, this
Anderson trust of money
to be raising fascists--
>> REGINA: We didn't give
a name to it last time.
That's the booty that they
had in the Philippines.
>> SHEEHAN: Well here's
exactly what happened.
What happened is that
there was some information
around suspecting that the
Japanese government had
moved some significant
amounts of treasure
into the Philippines.
And when the end
of the war came,
this fellow by the name
of Edward Lansdale, who
was the G2 in the
Philippines, now
the head of intelligence,
Army Intelligence.
He captured, and when General
Yamashita turned himself in,
who had been the supervisor
of burying these treasures,
that Lansdale
captured his driver.
And Lansdale assigned a guy
by the name of Santa Romano
to torture the guy, to
try to find out where
some of these troves were.
And through the torture
sessions, some of which
Lansdale actually
personally witnessed,
they extracted this information
for 12 of these troves.
And what Lansdale did,
they opened up two of them
and found that there
was $100 billion
of gold bullion,
platinum, silver,
and jewels in these troves.
And so Lansdale actually
flew to Hong Kong,
and flew eventually
to Singapore I
believe, and met directly
with General MacArthur, who
was the commander of the East,
the whole Pacific at the time,
and told him that
they had found these.
And there were 176 of these.
They uncovered 12 of them.
And they had--
>> REGINA: $1.2 trillion.
>> SHEEHAN: --$1.2 trillion
already in possession.
>> REGINA: A lot of
money in the day.
>> SHEEHAN: So what MacArthur
did is he brought his G2
into the meeting, a guide
named Charles Willoughby.
And Charles Willoughby
and Lansdale
flew in MacArthur's
private plane
back to back to the Philippines,
back to Hawaii, back
to the United States, all
the way to Washington, DC
To have a private
meeting with Truman
to let him know that they
had come into possession
of these $1.2 trillion in
gold and silver, platinum
and jewels.
And they had to get
through the chief of staff
first to get a meeting.
The chief of staff
was Clark Clifford.
So they had to tell
them what they had.
So Clark Clifford set up
the meeting with Truman.
And when they started to tell
Truman what they had uncovered,
Truman brought into the meeting
Stimson, his secretary of war.
And Stimson brought
in with him two
of his deputies-- well
three of his deputies,
who were Robert Lovett-- who
was a senior partner at Brown
Brothers Harriman.
And Robert Anderson was a
senior partner in Brown Brothers
Harriman-- and John Jay McCloy.
And they assigned them to be the
three trustees of this trust.
They did not tell the
Congress about it.
They did not take the funds into
possession of the government.
They kept it outside
the government
so they wouldn't
have to report--
>> REGINA: Some kinds of
black ops, off the books cash.
>> SHEEHAN: It was an
off the books operation.
And they assigned Robert
Anderson and Lovett and McCloy
to be the trustees for
this, with the understanding
that they were going to be
financing the rise of, quote,
sympathetic candidates around
the world to support capitalism
against communism.
So they had set up this
regime of having access
to these funds.
They adopted the Truman
Doctrine publicly
of not allowing any
of these governments
to fall into the hands of
socialists or communists.
So they put them
under the control
of these people that
were anti-communist
which meant they were
pro-fascist for the most part.
And that whole
regime was in place.
And so what they did is they
proposed-- the elite people
that we're talking about, Robert
Lovett, proposed to Truman
that they establish a Central
Intelligence group that
would basically have the
power of covert operations
that could help facilitate
and run this secret program
they were going to be running.
So Lovett headed up a
commission recommending
the creation of a Central
Intelligence Agency.
And they set it up in 1947.
And they set up the Central
Intelligence Agency.
And there was a
provision, section 5412
of the National
Security Act of 1947
which authorized the
National Security
Council to not only engage
in gathering intelligence,
the Central Intelligence
Agency to gather and evaluate
intelligence, but also,
from time to time,
undertake other
assignments assigned
to them by the National
Security Council.
And it was under the color
of that particular provision
that they set up the 5412
committee, which ended up
being chaired, as of 1952,
with the election of Eisenhower
and his vice president
Richard Nixon-- Richard
Nixon was assigned to
chair the 5412 committee.
This is where the
power of Richard Nixon
really begins to arrive.
>> REGINA: Tell us about
the 5412 committee.
>> SHEEHAN: The 5412
committees is a subcommittee
of the National
Security Council.
The National Security
Council is made up
of the secretary of state,
the secretary of defense,
the secretary of the
treasury, and the heads of all
of the military commands-- the
Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps.
They didn't have an
Air Force at that time,
but they had the Army Air Force.
And this became the
Security Council.
And they set up a special
subdivision, the 5412
committee, where
the CIA-- which was
not a military organization.
It was a civilian intelligence
organization and a gathering
and evaluation group.
But what they did is because
of this section under 5412
that authorized them to
engage in specific activities
from time to time, what
happened is Richard Nixon began
to assert power to
use the CIA to engage
in covert operations, active
paramilitary operations.
>> REGINA: Now the
CIA at that time,
just so we can
get this straight,
they were funded by
that Anderson trust?
>> SHEEHAN: No, they had their
own funding from the United
States government.
>> REGINA: But for this stuff
they're not supposed to be
doing in their
strange alliances.
>> SHEEHAN: But the stuff that
they didn't want to inform
Congress about, there was
this other Anderson trust that
existed--
>> REGINA: OK, that's what
I was getting to, right.
>> SHEEHAN: --off the books, and
that they had access to this.
Because what they did
is they brought in,
as the first civilian director
of the CIA, was Allen Dulles.
And so he was the
consigliere, actually,
for this entire group.
>> REGINA: And that's an
appropriate word because now
you need to get
into the bedfellows.
>> SHEEHAN: Because what
happened is that just as during
the course of World War II, when
the Allies decided that they
were going to invade Europe
and send US military forces
into Europe-- they were going to
go in through Salerno and Anzio
down in Sicily.
And then they were going to
invade in Normandy on June 6.
But they sent in an
initial wave into Sicily,
into Salerno and into Anzio.
And so what they did is--
remember now, in 19--
by this time now, this is 1944.
So the war is still going on.
And when they were
planning the invasion what
happened is in the election
of 1940-- remember now,
Truman came in
1945 when FDR died.
And so he served out the
remainder of the term
that-- FDR had been
elected in 1944.
So that went to 1946.
So there was this-- or
excuse me, he died in 1945.
So he was until 1946 and
filled out the campaign.
The next campaign when Truman
was going to run for election,
remember, everybody
thought he was going
to lose time to Tom Dewey.
And so Tom Dewey had-- everybody
assumed he was going to be
the new president, the
Republican president, right?
So Tom Dewey sent one
of his representatives
up to the Great Meadows
prison in northern New York,
up north of Lake
George, in a place
called Comstock in New York.
And it was a big
white collar prison
where the organized crime people
had would get to go to, right?
And it turns out my father ended
up being a prison guard there.
He was in the invasion,
actually, at Salerno.
And he was wounded there and
so he was sent back early.
But he came in just
after these events
had happened at the prison.
And so he found out about them.
What happened is Tom Dewey
sent a representative of him
to the prison, whose
name is Murray Gurfein.
He was a special assistant
district attorney in New York
because Tom Dewey had been the
district attorney in New York,
and then become the
governor of New York.
And then he was running
as the Republican nominee.
He sent Murray
Gurfein to the prison
to meet with Lucky Luciano.
And Lucky Luciano
had been sentence
for white slavery, prostitution,
supervising prostitution.
And he was in the state
prison up in New York.
So Murray Gurfein went in and
had a negotiation with him.
And they agreed that they
would let Lucky Luciano out
of prison, would set aside his
conviction, let him get out,
and he'd go back to Sicily.
And he would organize
the mafia in Sicily
to be special scouts for the
invading forces at Salerno
and Anzio.
And they would guide them
up through all of Italy
and send them in and
take back Italy and then
go toward Rome, right?
It's the Fifth Army.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about
the yellow ribbon and all that,
yeah.
>> SHEEHAN: So what happened
is that that was agreed to.
So Lucky Luciano
went back to Sicily.
And what they did is the
invading forces, when they came
ashore, they had their tanks
and their armored personnel
carriers, they would
tie a yellow bandana
to the aerial, the antennas,
the communication antennas.
And that was the
sign of the mafia.
And that means--
>> REGINA: Protection.
>> SHEEHAN: --they were
protected by the mafia
and people were to give
them their support.
And so people would give them
directions through the valleys
and through the
back roads and how
they could move through Italy.
And what happened is
when the war was over,
at the end of the war, they
went back to these guys
and what they agreed
to do is they set up
an opium trafficking operation
out of the Golden Triangle
in Laos and Cambodia.
And they were shipping opium
from the Golden Triangle
to the Corsican
mafia in Corsica.
And then they were
transformed it into heroin.
And then it was coming
into the island of Cuba
under the control of
the fascist dictator
Batista, Fulgencio Batista.
And the mafia was
based in Havana
under Santos Trafficante,
who was the don there.
And the CIA, after it
was created in 1947,
had a full time guy assigned
to the embassy down in Havana.
And he was there.
And he set up a thing called the
SEA Supply Corporation, S-E-A,
the SEA Supply Corporation--
>> REGINA: And what
did they supply?
>> SHEEHAN: --for
Southeast Asia.
They supplied heroin.
>> REGINA: And that was
flooded into the US markets.
>> SHEEHAN: And Paul
Helliwell was this guy's name,
a full time Central Intelligence
Agency employee with dental
benefits, retirement benefits.
>> REGINA: And he
was running heroin.
>> SHEEHAN: And he was
running the heroin.
And it was coming up
into the United States.
And a portion of the
profits were then
given over to a company called
the International Business
Corporation, the head of
which was William D. Pawley.
And they were the
ones purchasing
weapons and explosives
and ammunition
and flying it into to support
the Nationalist Chinese,
the Kuomintang of General
Chiang Kai-Shek, who
had been opposing the
Japanese and was now opposing
Mao Zedong and the
communist forces in China.
So there was this
entire covert operation
that was running through Cuba.
And so it was central to
the power of the Central
Intelligence Agency.
It was a major covert operation
and a source of covert funding
that supplemented their
access to the Anderson trust.
And so it was critical
for them to maintain
control of this place.
And what happened
is, so you've got,
as of 1952, you've got
Eisenhower and Nixon in office.
You've got them in control,
Nixon running the 5412
committee.
In 1953, Allen Dulles is
made the head of the Central
Intelligence Agency.
And so you have the
same cabal, made up
of the people who were
the private investment
clients of Brown Brothers
Harriman, George Herbert
Walker, who had now gone on
to head up the Union Bank that
financed the rise of Hitler.
You've got Prescott Bush as the
CEO of Brown Brothers Harriman,
Allen Dulles,
their lawyer, being
the head of the Central
Intelligence Agency with access
to the Anderson trust.
All of this operation
is going on from 1953
all the way up until 1959,
with Eisenhower being
reelected in 1956 with Nixon.
And so in 1959,
January, actually
New Year's Day of January 1959,
Fidel Castro and Raul Castro
and--
>> REGINA: Che Guevera.
>> SHEEHAN: --Che Guevera
and the others overthrow
the fascist military
dictator of Cuba,
who was a business partner with
Paul Helliwell and with Santos
Trafficante in running
the heroin through there.
>> REGINA: Were
they fully aware?
Was Castro aware of the business
dealings of the United States
running through there,
of the mafia and the--
>> SHEEHAN: Oh yes, yes he was.
Yes he was.
>> REGINA: He knew
what was going on.
>> SHEEHAN: He was a lawyer, an
intelligent guy, well informed.
And so they--
>> REGINA: So he wanted out.
>> SHEEHAN: --ousted
all of them.
He ousted all of those people.
He shut down all the
gambling casinos,
shut down the house
of prostitution,
shut down the
heroin trafficking,
and threw them all out.
And so the mafia people fled.
And they fled up to Florida,
up to Miami and Tampa.
And the Batista
supporters all fled.
And they set up camp there.
And what happened is Richard
Nixon, as the head of the 5412
committee, issued an
ultimatum to Fidel Castro,
and said look it, you have to
have no diplomatic relations
with Russia or China.
You're part of the
Monroe Doctrine,
of all of our control
over Latin America.
And as a conditional
precedent to our
giving you any
recognition at all,
you have to agree to have
no diplomatic relations
with either of these
two communist countries.
And Fidel Castro
told him to bug off.
They weren't going
to agree to do that.
They were going to have
diplomatic relations
with everyone.
And so immediately
Richard Nixon,
with the authority
of Eisenhower,
mounted a covert campaign
against the government
of Fidel Castro and Raul
Castro and Che Guevara.
And what they'd set up is
a private covert operation
called Operation 40.
And they began to recruit
anti-Castro Cuban exiles
into this operation.
And they began to fund
them out of the Miami
station of the CIA.
They set up a major
operation out of Miami.
And they were funding
paramilitary attacks
against the island.
They were blowing up bridges,
burning entire sugar fields,
and poisoning sugar exports
to the Soviet Union.
>> REGINA: Without any executive
or judiciary or any one
of the branches of knowledge?
>> SHEEHAN: Well no, no,
no, this was a straight CIA
operation.
This was a straight
up CIA operation,
congressional authorization,
presidential sign up,
oh yeah, the whole operation.
And so that's what was
going on as of 1959, 1960.
But then what happens is that
when Richard Nixon is, in 1960,
pursuing the
Republican nomination,
and so as soon as Nelson
Rockefeller withdrew
from the Michigan
primary in June 1960,
Richard Nixon
realized he was going
to be the nominee for
the Republican Party.
And he assumed he was going
to win the nomination.
And he knew that
this young Kennedy
kid was running for the
Democratic party nomination,
thought he wasn't going to
have any trouble beating him.
And so what he
did, Richard Nixon,
as the chair of the
5412 committee, still
as vice president,
contacts Howard Hughes,
using a private phone they
had in the National Security
Council, contacts
Howard Hughes who
had become an asset for the
National Security Council.
He was a covert asset.
And he had set up a thing
called the Summa Corporation.
And they, for example, had
built the Glomar Explorer,
which was able to pick
up Russian submarines
off the bottom of the ocean.
He was engaged in a whole series
of technological support made
for covert operations.
Richard Nixon reached out
to him in a secure phone
and asked Howard
Hughes in June of 1960
to set up a professional
assassination team,
to assassinate Fidel Castro
and Raul Castro and Che Guevara
and the other five comandantes,
the new revolutionary Cuban
government.
Howard Hughes didn't agree or
disagree in the phone call.
But what he did is-- they
have the phone call-- he
brings in a young lawyer
by the name of Bob Maheu
and assigns him--
he says, Nixon's
getting ready to be president.
He's asked us to set up
the assassination group
to keep it completely
away from the White House
so it's unknown.
And so I want you
to get this done.
Bob Maheu goes and sits down
with Johnny Roselli, who
is the bag man for
Sam Giancana, who
was the head of the
mafia in Chicago.
He goes and meets
with Johnny Roselli,
first in Las Vegas and then a
second meeting out in the Brown
Derby, out in Los Angeles.
And they have this meeting,
these set of meetings.
And Bob Maheu asks Johnny
Roselli to get the mafia
to assassinate Fidel Castro
and these other people,
said you guys got your own
reasons for wanting him out
of there.
He closed out your casinos and
the houses of prostitution.
>> REGINA: This is
a win-win, right?
>> SHEEHAN: If you guys
benefit, then we can reestablish
the heroin trafficking.
You guys are running
it for us, right?
And so Johnny Roselli
says look, I've
got to go meet with Sam
Giancana, my principal,
to know whether we're going
to be allowed to do this.
So Johnny Roselli and Bob
Maheu went and sat down
with Sam Giancana up in Chicago.
Giancana says, well look,
I'm supportive enough
of doing this.
But if we're going to
do this done in Cuba,
that's Santos
Trafficante's territory.
We've got to go down
and meet with Santos.
So they go down and
meet in the end of June
or early July, that
first week of July.
They go down to
Fontainebleau Hotel.
They hold three meetings.
Santos Trafficante's
telling me--
was telling my chief
investigator all this
because-- it's a long
story, but he was a client
of F. Lee Bailey's law firm.
And I was one of the three trial
attorneys at Lee Bailey's law
firm.
So that's how I'm getting
all this information, right?
So Santos tells us all about it.
So what he does, he says,
"Look, I'm agreeable to do this.
But if I'm going
to do this thing--"
which they kept referring
to it as this thing--
"if I'm going to do
this thing, then I
need to be assured that
this is coming from Nixon,
the president, and not just from
Howard Hughes or Bob Maheu."
And so he said, "I want a person
from Nixon to come to a meeting
and give me their assurances
this is from Nixon."
>> REGINA: So they'd have
immunity if anything came down
to--
>> SHEEHAN: Well, yeah, because
he just wanted to say that this
was authorized.
He wanted to know
it was authorized.
So a guy comes to
the third meeting
using the nom de guerre Mr. Ed,
who is Sheffield Edwards, who
was the chief of security for
the Central Intelligence Agency
under Allen Dulles and
under Richard Nixon.
And so he gives them
the green light.
So they go ahead and do it.
But Santos Trafficante
says, you know,
I didn't fall off no
melon wagon, he said.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to make the assassination
team made up of 15 of
my former gunman who
are anti-Castro Cubans
who are now up in Miami
who are working for
Operation 40 for the CIA,
so that if any of
them get caught
attempting to
assassinate Castro,
the agency is going
to get blamed.
So they're going to have to
move in and cover for them
and shut down any kind of
investigation of these kinds.
>> REGINA: So built
in protection.
>> SHEEHAN: So he's the one.
Trafficante's the one
that set up this cover.
They're really going to be
functioning as off the shelf
agents for Richard Nixon,
at the behest of Bob Maheu.
And they're going to
set this whole thing up.
But if they get
caught, the agency's
then going to have their
butt in a crack, as they say,
and they're going to
have to jump in and try
to cover for that.
So that's what happens.
So they set up this
15 man group that
was code named the S-Force.
And they were going to
try to assassinate Castro.
But what happened is,
much to their chagrin,
they were also planning,
when Richard Nixon
gets elected
president, they were
going to send in a group
of anti-Castro Cubans
to quote, invade Cuba
at the Bay of Pigs,
and they were going to
go ashore on the beach.
And they were going
to immediately ask
for the military support.
They were going to
announce that they
were the free Cuban
new government,
revolutionary governor.
And the United States
under new President Nixon
would recognize them and send
in the United States Marines
and overthrow Castro's
government, right,
much like they'd done
15 times before--
>> REGINA: Sure,
everywhere else.
>> SHEEHAN: --in South America.
And so the problem is
Nixon didn't get elected.
John Kennedy ends up beating
him and becomes president.
And when he comes on board,
he's informed about the plan
to invade Cuba with this force.
He refuses to provide
US military invasion.
He said look, if
you're insisting--
if the CIA is insisting that if
these few hundred men go ashore
in the Bay of Pigs and
announce the new revolutionary
government, the people of Cuba
will wall rise up against Fidel
Castro because they don't like
him and they'll all rise up,
and they'll overthrow Castro.
And if that's true, that's fine.
Then you go ahead and do it.
But he was not going to
supply Marine Corps, Air Force
cover, or anything.
Now so what they figured
out is that-- now he's
elected in November of 1960.
He's sworn in on
January 21, 1961.
He finds out about the plan
for the Cuban invasion,
and refuses the military
support for the thing.
And they go ahead in
April, 17th of 1961,
and they stage the invasion.
And they go in.
And it's a long
story, but people
are saying they screwed
up, because they
had some private military
planes they were going to use
for air cover for these guys.
But they were based
out of Nicaragua,
and it was a
different time zone.
And so they arrived
an hour late.
So these guys that went
onto the beach and got
discovered by the
Cuban military,
and they were pounding
them for an hour.
And when the planes
came, they were already
annihilated on the beach.
And so it wasn't
Kennedy's refusal
to provide air support
that was their problem.
It was--
>> REGINA: It was
a time zone issue.
>> SHEEHAN: --their
own screw up.
And that's all true.
So the bottom line is
they all get captured.
And Nixon is humiliated.
But the fact is he
wasn't there anymore,
so Kennedy ends up getting
humiliated over this.
Kennedy apologizes
to Khrushchev,
takes full
responsibility for it,
promises Khrushchev
that they're going
to stop any of the paramilitary
operations, but doesn't do it.
Kennedy lies to Khrushchev.
And so what they
do is all they do
is change the code
name from Operation 40
to Operation Mongoose.
But he's furious because--
>> REGINA: Because it's
happening in the Everglades?
>> SHEEHAN: Because he knew
what they were really doing.
The CIA never thought that that
military group could take back
Cuba.
They didn't believe that
people were going to rise up.
They thought that what
was going to happen
is that when they got
trapped on the beach
that they were going
to come to Kennedy
and insist that he has to send
in the United States Marine
Corps to protect
these people now.
And that's what
they tried to do.
They tried to box him in.
They actually went to
a major social event
that Kennedy was attending
that night of April 17th when
the invasion was taking
place and told him
that they were getting
trapped on the beach.
He had to send in the military.
In fact, unbeknownst
to Kennedy, the Navy
had actually mobilized the
Marine Corps and the Navy,
and it stationed ships
fully loaded with US Marines
off the coast of Cuba,
without any authority
of the president at all, in
complete defiance of his order
that there was to be no military
support for these people at all
from the US military.
And they staged it getting
it perfectly ready.
And so when Kennedy said
no, they were furious at him
for not allowing them to
trap him right into doing it.
And Kennedy outfoxed
them and refused
to provide the military support,
so they were all captured.
So as I say, but he went
ahead and apologized for it
to Khrushchev, promised he
was going to stop doing it,
changed the name from Operation
40 to Operation Mongoose,
and continued the
paramilitary operations.
Well it didn't take
long for Khrushchev
to realize that
he'd been lied to,
so he starts
putting missiles in.
He starts putting
missiles into Cuba.
That all goes down from between
April of 1961 all the way
for the whole year, they're
putting in missiles.
And they're discovered
in October of 1962.
Then you have the famous
Cuban Missile Crisis--
>> REGINA: Missile Crisis, yeah.
>> SHEEHAN: --in
October of 1962.
And what happens is
that Kennedy is being
told by the joint chiefs
of staff under-- it
was under Lemnitzer,
who was the head of it,
the United States
Army chief of staff.
But Curtis LeMay, who was
the head of the Air Force--
he was the Air Force
chief of staff--
he kept wanting to invade Cuba.
And he kept saying,
look, we're going
to invade Cuba and
knock out the missiles.
But Kennedy kept saying,
oh wait a second,
if we try to do that, they've
already got missiles in there.
They may fire the missiles
at the United States.
Well Curtis LeMay didn't care.
He said if they fire missiles
at the United States,
then we'll totally
destroy the Soviet Union.
He wanted to have
a thermonuclear
war against Russia.
And so what happened is on the
night of October 18th of 1962,
Kennedy had issued an
ultimatum to Khrushchev,
saying that if you allow
any ships, Russian ships,
bearing additional
missiles to cross
this particular
line of longitude,
the United States
and Russia will
be in a technical state of war.
And what happens on the
night of October 18,
a ship bearing additional
missiles crossed the line.
And so Curtis LeMay
immediately ordered,
without presidential
authority, ordered
all of the United
States military forces
to go to DEFCON 2, which is
just below a shooting war.
And he ordered all the
Strategic Air Command
to go to their fail safe
points around the borders
of the Soviet Union and ordered
a U2 overflights of the Soviet
Union, within radar range
so the Soviets would
know that this was happening.
He was trying to instigate
the Soviets into trying
to take steps to get
ready for a nuclear war
so they could, again, trap
Kennedy and say you can't just
stand by, they're mobilizing
in the Soviet Union.
We've got to have a nuclear
first strike against them
and get their missiles while
they're still in the silos.
And so that's what
they tried to do.
And so Kenny O'Donnell
came to Kennedy
and told him that the
joint chiefs had all voted
to attack the island of Cuba.
And Kennedy ordered
them to stand down
and said, "I will not be
the man that does this,"
because he knows
that that was going
to trigger a thermonuclear
exchange with Russia.
So on that night of
October 18th of 1962--
Kenny O'Donnell told us this--
said that he came and told
Kennedy, and Kennedy sat there.
He was in his rocking chair.
And tears came to his eyes.
He said, "I will not be
the man that does this."
And he ordered them all to
stand down from DEFCON 2.
He ordered them to stop.
He contacted Khrushchev, agreed
that he would take the US
missiles out of
Turkey in exchange
for them taking the
missiles out of Cuba.
And what he did is he started
an exchange, a completely secret
exchange of letters
with Khrushchev
in which Kennedy and Khrushchev
agreed that they were going
to start to disassemble
the nuclear warheads
of all of their missiles.
They had come right to within
seconds of a thermonuclear
exchange.
It would have destroyed the
entire human civilization,
and potentially killed virtually
all life on the planet--
how completely absurd this was.
And Kennedy said that we
had come to this moment
and he was not going to allow
this to ever happen again,
so he was going to secretly
negotiate this agreement
to disassemble all of the
nuclear warheads, the United
States and the Soviet Union.
And he reached out
to Pope John the 23rd
and asked Pope John the 23rd
to be the broker of this,
so that they could assure
them that both sides were
disassembling their missiles.
And he reached out to Castro,
tried to normalize relations
with Castro.
And so the decision
was made to kill him.
And what happened is that
right after the Cuban Missile
Crisis stood down,
he in fact, Kennedy,
ordered the shutdown of
the five paramilitary bases
that had been set up under
Operation 40 by Nixon.
And it continued under
Mongoose, that they
had won at No Name Key.
They had one in the Everglades.
They had one on Swan Island.
They had two of them at Lake
Pontchartrain in New Orleans.
They had all these bases where
these paramilitary anti-Castro
Cubans were all
mobilized and were
being trained and supervised
by CIA liaison guys.
So he ordered them
all to be shut down
and to stand down from any
further military operations
against Cuba.
And he was carrying on
this secret negotiation
with Khrushchev when one of
the groups on Swan Island--
actually No Name Key actually
under Frank Sturgis--
attacked a Soviet ship
in the harbor of Havana
and sank it on
December 3rd of 1962.
And Kennedy was
cataleptic about this.
And he ordered in
the US Marshals
on these five helicopter
gunships into No Name Key
and burnt out the base and
arrested all those guys,
and charged them with a
violation of the Neutrality
Act, of attacking a country with
whom the United States is not
at war, and arrested
them, and figured
that that was a shot across
the bow of all these guys,
telling them to
stand down from this.
And then he released them.
But the problem was that
a second group of them,
the ones in the Everglades
under E. Howard Hunt,
the CIA supervisor,
started to plan
another attack against Cuba.
So Bobby and John send in
the helicopter gunships
and burnt them
out, arrested them
and charged them with a
violation of the Neutrality
Act.
And the S-Force guys
all wanted to kill him,
because they
considered him to be
a traitor, because
he had authorized
them to do all these attacks.
And so he was now
punishing them for trying
to continue doing them.
And so they wanted to kill him.
But the S-Force itself--
Santos Trafficante
told us, in Lee Bailey's
firm, that the S-Force
are the ones that made the
decision to kill Kennedy.
I knew perfectly well
that wasn't true.
They didn't have
the wherewithal--
they had the
wherewithal to do it,
but they didn't
have the wherewithal
to get away with it.
And so what happens is that when
they wanted to kill him, then
it started coming up
the line, who all was
going to allow them to do this.
So it started moving
up the line and got
to be to Bill Harvey, got to
be to Theodore Shackley, who
was now the Miami station
chief down there, that all
these people started deciding
whether to let this happen.
But what happened is Allen
Dulles, who had been relieved
of command after the
Bay of Pigs invasion,
and then trying to trap
Kennedy into doing this,
had been relieved
of his position
as the head of the CIA.
He was still the consigliere
for all of these people.
And they then consulted
with the people
who were a certain core
group of these guys that
were the financiers of
Brown Brothers Harriman.
They were the financial
clients of these people.
They ended up greenlighting
this assassination.
And so Allen Dulles was the
field commander that actually
commanded those people.
And they moved in, and the
S-Force moved into place
to try to kill Kennedy.
They were going to kill him
in Miami, if they could,
so the symbol would be perfectly
obvious of what had happened.
But Kennedy got a
warning and didn't go.
Then they were going to
assassinate him in Chicago.
And he got a warning
and they didn't go.
And then he insisted he
had to go down to Dallas.
And they set up down in Dallas.
And the guy who ran
the field operation
was a guy by the name of
William Rip Robertson.
They had the shooters,
David Morales,
they called the Indian
was one of the guys.
Felix Rodriguez, Rafeal
Chi Chi Quintero.
>> REGINA: These
were the S-Forces.
>> SHEEHAN: --Ricardo Chavez,
these were the S-Force guys.
And they were all deployed.
And interesting
enough Edward Lansdale
was there, the
guy who had become
one of the supervisors
of the secret trust,
the Anderson trust was there.
There are photographs of
him in the Daley Plaza.
They've got photographs
of Rip Robertson.
We know Rip Robertson was
the field commander of them
because we have witnesses who
attended other assassination
attempts on his part.
So they shot him and killed him.
And then they covered it all up.
>> REGINA: And Johnson was fully
aware that he was [INAUDIBLE].
>> SHEEHAN: No, no, that's--
>> REGINA: The night before?
>> SHEEHAN: That's
not entirely clear,
because what we do is we have--
>> REGINA: I'm going off
hearsay of the mistress.
>> SHEEHAN: There's
two witnesses.
There's two witnesses who say
that on the night of November
21st of 1963, the night before
the assassination, that there
was a meeting that was
held at the home of Clint
Murchison, Jr., at his
ranch outside of Dallas.
And these two
witnesses, one of whom
is the mistress
of Lyndon Johnson,
and the other who is a black
chauffeur for Clint Murchison,
Jr., who drove some of the
people to the meeting he said.
He said that Lyndon
Johnson was there
and Richard Nixon was there, and
three other people were there.
Dulles had flown in
earlier that evening
and was witnessed
coming into the airport.
But no one places him
directly in that meeting.
But what Lyndon Johnson's
mistress asserts
is that they were all at this
gathering, a social gathering
actually, because they all had
different reasons for being
down there, including
George Herbert Walker
Bush was there, in town.
But no one place him in
that meeting, directly.
The bottom line is that
there was a social gathering
at the home of Clint Murchison
Jr. Well the important thing is
that Clint Murchison Jr. is
the guy that owned the Oaxaca
ranch down in Mexico where they
trained the assassination team.
And so they went into
a closed door meeting
during this social gathering.
They went into this
closed door meeting.
And the mistress
of Lyndon Johnson
said that when he came out of
the meeting he turned to her
and said, "We aren't going to
have to worry about the Kennedy
brothers after tomorrow."
That's what she says.
And the chauffer--
>> REGINA: That's
the one I had heard.
>> SHEEHAN: And the chauffeur
says that these people were
there.
But none of them have
ever acknowledged it.
None of the participants
have ever acknowledged it.
>> REGINA: So the day goes down.
And now we've got a terrible
situation on time here.
I'm debating what to do.
Is it possible we can do
literally a bullet point
journey through
the next 30 years
from there in 10 minutes so
we can get to the New Paradigm
Institute and what
this all means?
>> SHEEHAN: Sure.
>> REGINA: OK, let's do it.
>> SHEEHAN: All right, so what
happens is Kennedy's killed.
Lyndon Johnson, who's his vice
president, comes into power.
Lyndon Johnson immediately
reverses the positions.
He refuses to participate in
any kind of a further plan
to disassemble the missiles,
the missile warheads.
He also reverses an order
that had been signed,
a national security
decision directive
that had been signed by
Kennedy to withdraw US
military forces out of Vietnam.
He also reverses a
national directive
that had authorized the printing
up of silver certificates
that Kennedy had ordered.
A whole series of things
>> REGINA: Reverses--
>> SHEEHAN: --were reversed.
>> REGINA: --of all that stuff.
>> SHEEHAN: Reverses all of it.
>> REGINA: Back to
business as usual.
>> SHEEHAN: Back to
business as usual,
and mounts up additional
forces into Vietnam,
goes through that entire
tragedy of Vietnam.
And then Bobby Kennedy
is laying in wait,
waiting to run
for the presidency
after Lyndon Johnson
gets done, and wants
to reinitiate an investigation
of the assassination,
because Bobby
Kennedy is convinced
that there is this cabal
that killed the president,
and that he's going
to investigate it
when he becomes president.
So Lyndon Johnson
becomes president.
He serves out the remaining
year of Kennedy's term.
And then Lyndon Johnson
wins the election in 1964,
against Goldwater, by 60%, and
is in power for the next four
years, from '64 to '68.
But in 1968 when a
number of us were
trying to talk Bobby
Kennedy into running,
the bottom line is he wouldn't
run against the sitting
president.
But when Lyndon
Johnson almost got
beaten by Eugene McCarthy,
the Democratic senator
from Minnesota, in the
New Hampshire primary
in January of 1968,
Lyndon Johnson steps down
in that famous speech,
"I will not seek
and I will not
accept the nomination
of my party for one more term."
And he withdraws from the
presidential election.
Bobby Kennedy comes in.
Bobby Kennedy is
getting ready to win.
He wins all the way
through now and he
wins the California primary.
>> REGINA: Now
he's in California.
>> SHEEHAN: He's gunned
down on June 6th of 1968.
And then so there's
this horrible series
of events that follow,
when Bobby is killed.
And so he doesn't get
elected president.
Richard Nixon finally gets to be
president after all that time.
>> REGINA: He was a patient man.
>> SHEEHAN: That's right.
>> REGINA: He paid his service.
>> SHEEHAN: He stays
in the background.
He wins the presidency,
by a small margin,
over Hubert Humphrey in 1968.
And there was that dreadful
convention of the Democrats
in Chicago in 1968.
The party splinters.
Nixon wins.
And Nixon comes into power.
And he's in power
from '68 to '72.
He's upping the ante in
Vietnam, huge demonstrations
in the streets.
You know, there's this whole
fracturing of the American body
politic.
>> REGINA: Lot of drugs
coming out of there.
>> SHEEHAN: All kinds of
things happening then.
We get to 1972,
and Nixon's getting
to run for his reelection,
and a peculiar thing happens.
The Democratic
National Committee
all of a sudden changes who the
head of the Democratic National
Committee is.
And they select a guy by
the name of Larry O'Brien.
And it turns out
that Larry O'Brien,
for 25 years prior
to his being made
the head of the Democratic
National Committee in 1972,
had been the chief Washington
lobbyist for Howard Hughes.
And Nixon is immediately
terrified that somehow
that Larry O'Brien--
>> REGINA: Information, yeah.
>> SHEEHAN: --may have found out
from Howard Hughes that it was
Richard Nixon that actually had
put together the assassination
team, originally
tasked to kill Castro,
who had in fact
killed the president.
And Nixon is
convinced that that's
the only thing that can enable
him to lose in 1972 to George
McGovern, right, in 1972?
And so he sends
in-- he's deciding
he's going to burglarize
the Democratic National
Headquarters, wiretap the
telephones of Larry O'Brien,
and bug the office to find out
whether Larry O'Brien, A, knows
about the fact that Nixon
is the one that put together
the assassination team that
ended up killing Kennedy,
or secondly, whether he was
going to use that against him.
So he sends the people in.
They put the wiretaps in.
One of them fails.
They go back in to try to
fix the bug in the phone,
and they get caught.
And then the whole thing
starts coming unraveled.
And its long and involved, but
it leads to the secret smoking
gun conversation on
June 21st of 1972
in which Bob Haldeman
comes into Nixon's office.
And the whole thing
is tape recorded.
>> REGINA: Yeah, because he had
a penchant for tape recording
everything.
>> SHEEHAN: And so he says to
Nixon, he says Mr. President,
I think we've got
a problem here.
John Dean, the White House
counsel to the president,
just received a call from Pat
Gray, the new head of the FBI,
and said that he's
getting pressure
to investigate the
origins of this check that
was found in the inside jacket
pocket of Bernard Barker, one
of the anti-Castro
Cubans who was arrested.
Because it turns out that the
burglary team that went in
to do the burglary is headed up
by Frank Sturgis and E. Howard
Hunt, the very two guys that
had been the heads of those two
anti-Castro Cuban
paramilitary bases
that tried to defy the
president back in 1962.
>> REGINA: So the
evidence is there.
The smoking gun--
>> SHEEHAN: The
smoking gun is there.
>> REGINA: So he's gone now.
>> SHEEHAN: So he's out.
And so the [INAUDIBLE].
>> REGINA: Yeah, five minutes
to get all the way to now.
>> SHEEHAN: But the bottom line
is that Nixon is out and Gerald
Ford is brought in, who
is a member of the Warren
Commission, who had
whitewashed the entire Kennedy
assassination.
So he's brought in and he
pardons Nixon immediately.
And so people are
very unhappy about all
that because they
believe that Nixon
should have been prosecuted
for what he had done.
And so he ends up losing.
And Bob Strauss, the head of the
Democratic National Committee,
the new guy that's
in, picks Jimmy Carter
to be the new president.
And nobody even knows who
Jimmy Carter is in the country.
I mean, Jimmy Carter, this
was one more demonstration
of this elite group picking
what's going to happen.
They picked Jimmy Carter.
He ends up becoming president.
And he comes into
office and gets elected.
And one of the things he
does is he establishes
a new presidential
executive order, cutting off
military funding to any
foreign dictator who
in fact systematically
violates the rights of the--
>> REGINA: He was a good man.
>> SHEEHAN: He was a good man.
And we had negotiated
that with Carter.
I was chief counsel by this
time of the United States Jesuit
headquarters.
We bring in all 54 major
religious denominations
in the United States
and meet with Carter,
who is the delegate-- who is
the candidate for the nomination
for the Democrats.
We get him to agree that
if he's elected president,
he'll issue this executive order
cutting off the military aid.
And he does.
And he cuts off the
military aid to Nicaragua,
to Anastasio Samoza.
And he cuts off the military
aid from the United States
to the Shah of Iran.
And both of those governments
fall, within six months.
And so that is the origins
of the Iran-Contra crisis.
>> REGINA: Right, and we're
going to skim on past that.
We need to get to Perestroika.
You were involved in that.
And now let's start bringing
your involvement in,
because we're not going
to get all the way
through the deeds that occurred
regarding the Bushes and Saddam
Hussein and the House of
Saud and Osama bin Laden,
but we know they're
all bedfellows.
Everyone watching knows
they were bedfellows,
and this has all been
created for a purpose
because the whole
Soviet threat went away.
And let's talk about
your part in that
and go into the paradigms.
>> SHEEHAN: Well the bottom
line is that in 1979,
right after we won the Karen
Silkwood case and stopped
the construction of all
private nuclear power plants
in the United States, and
did the Three Mile Island
litigation, my staff person
at the Jesuit national
headquarters, Jimmy
Garrison-- not Jim Garrison--
>> REGINA: Not Jim Garrison.
>> SHEEHAN: --from New Orleans,
but Dr. James Garrison,
eventually-- he, in fact, we
tasked him to go to the Soviet
Union, because we were going
to try to organize all 54
of the major religious
denominations to undertake
a 10% cutback in the number of
nuclear missile warheads that
we had.
And we needed the Soviet
Union to respond in kind.
So Jim Garrison, Jimmy Garrison
went over to the Soviet Union
and ended up meeting,
eventually, with Gorbachev,
when he was still the secretary
of agriculture under Andropov,
and to try to get him to
agree that he would agree,
if he becomes
premier, to respond
to a 10% cut back in the United
States military warheads.
And he said the US isn't
really ever going to do that.
I'll have to take
that initiative.
And so he did.
When he became the premier, the
president of Russia in 1985,
he began the process of
Perestroika and Glasnost.
And he began the
process of starting
to disassemble some
of the missiles,
and reaching out to
the United States.
And by that time,
actually George HW Bush
had become vice
president under Reagan,
as a result of the October
Surprise, which brought them
into power.
And so when Reagan
went to "Ves-ne-eck,"
whatever it was up in Iceland
and sat down with Gorbachev,
Gorbachev recommended to Reagan,
why don't we disassemble all
the nuclear warheads,
both of our sites?
And Reagan agreed to do it.
And so all of Reagan's
people, headed up
by George Herbert Walker
Bush, all said absolutely not,
you can't do that.
And so they just
defied him, even
though he was going to
enter into the agreement
with Khrushchev.
They said, you can't do that.
Who do you think you
are, president, you know,
because he wasn't.
I mean, actually Bush was
the functional president.
And so they stopped
that whole agreement.
And so the Iran-Contra crisis
began with the fall of Samoza
in Nicaragua and the
fall of the Shah of Iran,
because this cabal continued
to try to overthrow
the new governments.
>> REGINA: Right.
It just moved to
the Middle East.
>> SHEEHAN: Yes.
And so we were involved
in all of that,
are the Jesuit
national headquarters.
We're players in
all of that process.
And so when we filed the lawsuit
against the off-the-shelf
enterprise, and we put in
a lawsuit that laid out
all this history, that
laid out all the way back
to 1959 and the drug smuggling
and the heroin smuggling
and everything.
We laid it all out in a
major federal complaint.
And the entire cabal
went ballistic over this.
And they sealed our
complaint, threatened
to put me in jail if I
told anybody about it.
I went and met with Tip O'Neill,
the speaker of the house
at the time.
And then I met with
Claiborne Pell,
who was the ranking Democrat
in the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, revealed
all of that to them.
And when the Democrats retook
the Senate in the fall of 1986,
they moved into power and we
set up special select committees
to start investigating them.
The FBI was investigating them.
We went through this
entire Iran-Contra crisis
and came to the very brink of
almost impeaching Ronald Reagan
and Bush for defying Congress
and the Boland Amendment.
So we have all that history.
But beneath all of
this, as you can tell,
I've been involved in all
kinds of these activities.
But it required a
much deeper analysis
of really trying to
understand what was going on.
And what you really--
>> REGINA: And basically
let's just say,
all the way up until this
moment 30 years after that,
the same games have been played,
a lot of the same players,
same motivations,
same institutions,
military industrial complex,
banks have still been involved.
So the shenanigans
have continued,
and now we can't
take it anymore.
The same shadowy
forces are entrenched
that have been
entrenched starting back
in the days of Hitler.
I mean, we're looking
at an 80 year legacy
now with this stuff.
So the question is, so you
created the New Paradigm
Institute because
of this, because
of your deep involvement
in understanding
the philosophical nature
of these players involved.
And you talk about the
different paradigms
in terms of their psychological
functioning, right?
>> SHEEHAN:
Cosmological insights.
>> REGINA: Yeah, cosmological
insights and all of the above.
>> SHEEHAN: It's
a very profound--
>> REGINA: It is.
>> SHEEHAN: --basis.
>> REGINA: We have
a few minutes left.
And in short, let me just
ask you this question,
because I think it's worth
people going to New Paradigm
Institute.
Is it newparadigminstitute.org?
>> SHEEHAN: Well what it is
is it's presently a wholly
integrated auxiliary of
the Romero Institute.
>> REGINA: The Romero, OK.
>> SHEEHAN: So they want to
go to the romeroinstitute.org.
>> REGINA: Dot org, OK.
>> SHEEHAN: And then they
can look up the New Paradigm
Institute under it.
And it's going to be eventually
a separate 501(c)(3) up
at Berkeley at the university.
>> REGINA: OK, so
everyone can go there.
Let's talk about-- I just
want your own point of view
on, ultimately,
what is it going--
if revolution of the
kind we talked about
is not desirable, the
Trotsky-esque kind
of revolution, then
what is it going to take
to create a serious evolution?
>> SHEEHAN: Well it's going
to take the 95% of the people
in the country who never do
anything about really deciding
what's going to happen in the
country except go out and vote,
60% of the people that are
eligible to go out and vote
once every four years.
It's going to take a lot
more activity than that.
We're going to have to
mobilize and organize.
>> REGINA: But what else outside
of even the political process?
We have millennials coming up
who are just so disinterested.
>> SHEEHAN: They really need to
understand what the differences
are in these worldviews, that
it's not all one big mash
of people who are
all morally corrupt,
and they're not all the same.
The fact is they have
different worldviews.
There are authoritarians, who
are people like Donald Trump.
There are reactionaries, who
are like Ted Cruz and Rubio.
They have conservatives,
who are like Kasich
and most of the leadership
of the Republican
Party, the traditional
Republican party.
And then there are moderates,
which is the new more moderate
Democratic Party.
This is not only Hillary Clinton
but Bill Clinton and Barack
Obama and all the
major leadership
of the Democratic
Party right now.
Then there are liberals.
There's a Progressive
Caucus that's
in the House of Representatives.
And most all of them
are really liberals.
They call themselves
progressives,
but they're major liberals.
The progressives
are the only ones
who are really going to be able
to have the kind of insights
to organize and
to mobilize people
to be able to combat
the reactionary
and the authoritarians.
That's always been true.
And so they really
need to understand
what the underlying
belief systems are
of true progressives.
And their utopianists, which
are another worldview, which
are the theists, that
are the utopianists who
believe in meditating
and raising people's
consciousness and all that.
But the cutting edge is
going to be the progressives,
the development of a genuine
progressive party in the United
States.
It has to be conceived of.
It has to be mobilized.
It has to be organized.
That's what has to happen.
Because that's going to
inspire the millennials.
It's going to inspire a
lot of the people that
are disenchanted with
the present business
as usual operation.
And it's going to be what
the dark forces in the cabal
recognize as those who
can really unseat them.
And they're going to
mobilize against that.
But the fact is that the
alliance between the baby
boomer generation,
82 million of us,
and the millennial generation,
75 million of the kids,
have the power to organize
together and pursue
a progressive agenda that really
has what many people are going
to perceive as kind of a
spiritual dimension to it.
It is going to get behind
stopping global climate change,
undertaking the
radical changes that
are necessary, because these
people are all mobilizing
to allow global climate
change to take place,
to destroy basic civilization.
They're so attached to
the petroleum corporations
and the energy
corporations that they're
going to allow this to happen.
So we have to, for our
own self preservation,
we have to mobilize a new
progressive political party
that is spiritually informed,
which differentiates it
from just the Green
Party, because it's
a purely secular party.
We've got to have a kind
of a spiritual vision.
We've got to have a
progressive vision.
And we have to
mobilize and organize,
I believe, a new political
party to actually take
power in the United States.
They should come to the Romero
Institute, romeroinstitute.org,
and click onto the
New Paradigm Institute
to come to understand
what that's all about.
And understand, as a
501c3, we can't directly
organize the new
progressive political party.
That needs to be done by others.
And that needs to get set up.
>> REGINA: You're laying the
foundation and the education.
>> SHEEHAN: Perfectly willing
to be legal counsel for that.
>> REGINA: Of course you
are, as everyone else is.
>> SHEEHAN: We can set that up.
>> REGINA: With that, thank
you again for your time.
I really appreciate it.
>> SHEEHAN: It's my
pleasure for sure.
>> REGINA: I know you probably
need to watch this one a few
times, maybe even have to
take some mind enhancing herbs
to follow the thread.
But what's abundantly
clear is that the levels
of consciousness that have
run our planet until now
are obsolete.
To learn more
about Danny's work,
you can go to the website,
romeroinstitute.org.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here on Gaia.
[THEME MUSIC]